

https://stackoverflow.com/questions/5849457/using-namespace-in-c-headers

You should definitely NOT use using namespace in headers for precisely the reason you say, that it can unexpectedly change the meaning of code in any other files that include that header. There's no way to undo a using namespace which is another reason it's so dangerous.

The header should include just the headers that it needs to compile. An easy way to enforce this is to always include each source file's own header as the first thing, before any other headers. Then the source file will fail to compile if the header isn't self-contained.


Do not use static local variables in functions that could be called concurrently. See:
https://github.com/midilab/jc303/issues/23



Back to Basics: Object-Oriented Programming in C++ - Andreas Fertig - CppCon 2024
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SuubuqI4gVA   at 57:15 is a slide with a summary

- Init member variables in the constructor initializer list, not in the constructor's body. In the 
  latter case, the members would be initialized twice. First default initialized and then again in
  the constructor.

- Use structs when there are no invariants or constraints between the members and the client code 
  may just get and set them.

- Avoid default arguments for parameters in virtual member functions or if you use them, make sure 
  they have the same values in all derived classes. Otherwise, member functions called on baseclass 
  pointers that actually point to objects of derived classes will have the wrong default argument, 
  namely the one from the baseclass.

- Be sure to declare baseclass destructors virtual, if the class has any virtual methods. Otherwise 
  the destructors of the derived class may not get called.




Back to Basics: Lifetime Management in Cpp - Phil Nash - CppCon 2024
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aMvIv6blzBs

- Rule of 3: When you implement any of: (1) copy constructor, (2) copy assignment operator, 
  (3) destructor yourself (i.e. don't rely on the compiler generated functions), then you probably 
  need to implement the other two yourself as well. This is: you typically need to implement either 
  none of them (sometimes called the rule of zero) or all three of them. This is typically the case 
  when the class manages a resource (e.g. has a pointer member and owns the object pointed to). 

- Rule of 5: From C++11 onwards, we additionally may have to think about the: (4) move constructor,
  (5) move assignment operator. We may still get away with the rule of 3 but then we may leave some
  performance optimization on the table because possible moves will have to fall back to using 
  copies.

- Move constructors and assigment operators should typically not throw exceptions and be marked as 
  noexcept.

- Rule of 0: Always try to have the compiler generated special member functions do the right thing.
  In case of a managed resource such a s a pointer, this may be achieved by using smart pointers 
  rather than raw pointers. Classes should try to only use value types and managers as members and 
  avoid doing any manual resource management. Managers in this context are types that manage a 
  resource like smart pointers, owning STL containers like std::vector, non-owning views like 
  std::string_view, etc..

- Polymorphic baseclass probably should follow the rule of 5 with disabled (by using delete) copy 
  and move.