



To view an array (say named A) in the Visual Sudio debugger:
-right-click on A in the code -> select Add watch
-double-click on A in watch window and edit it to A,10 to watch 10 elements
-now it can be expanded just like std::vector
-one can also typecast a void-pointer by prepending e.g. (*double)
-one can also view another chunk of the array by adding an offset like: A+100,10

To debug drawing/painting code, it's sometimes useful to temporarily switch to some flashy color 
(like red or yellow) in the drawing code to get a better idea for which part of code draws which 
elements.

When a bug is discovered, it may be better to not just find and fix it but instead write a 
unit-test that exposes the bug, i.e. fails successfully, and _then_ find and fix the bug. The 
rationale is that the unit test may expose the bug in the simplemost scenario and with the new unit
test in place, we are much safer from re-introducing the bug somehow later.

For the standalone version of ToolChain, the JUCE framework provides functionality to recall the 
last plugin state when the plugin is launched, i.e. on startup, it tries to restore the state from
when it was closed. The file where this persistent state data is stored is found (on my machines) 
in:

  Windows: C:\Users\rob\AppData\Roaming\ToolChain\ToolChain.settings
  macOS:   ToDo: figure out!
  Linux:   ToDo: figure out!

These folders and files are created and updated silently by the JUCE framework. I found the 
location(s) with the search function of windows explorer (searching for "ToolChain"). Sometimes, 
it's necessary to manually delete this file, for example when the app crashes on startup during the 
state recall. When the file is missing, the app will start in a "blank" state, i.e. we can avoid 
auto-loading the state that leads to the crash. The file will be re-created when closing the app.


I sometimes run into this problem when building ToolChain standalone and run it in the debugger:

https://forum.juce.com/t/standalone-plugin-assertion-fails/22091/9
https://forum.juce.com/t/juce-plugin-host-assert-in-midimessagecollector/6456

ToDo: Figure out and document, how this problem can be solved! I can't tell for sure anymore, but if
I remember correctly, deleting the .settings file can also help with this. But that doesn't seem to 
make sense - what has MIDI to do with state-recall? ...but I may misremember this.




Common Bugs:

- Errors in conditionals (including loop conditions):

  - Off-by-1 errors.
 
  - Using "<" instead of "<=" or the other way around. The same goes for for ">" vs ">=".
  
  - Using an "if"-statement where actually a "while"-statement is required. For example, in certain 
    oscillator wrap-around scenarios with extremely high oscillator frequencies (above the Nyquist 
	limit)
  
- Memory errors:

  - Array access out of bounds. Often caused by "off-by-1" error in loop condition.
  
  - Use after free. Dangling pointers. Remedies: Use a deleteAndNull(ptr) function for deallocation
    that delets _and_ sets the pointe to a nullptr. This willturn invalid memeory access to nullptr
	derefencing which is more easily caught in a debugger.
  
  - Memory leaks. Remedies: Use smart pointers. Use memory leak checkers. Use Valgrind?
